# Hugs2Bugs
New repository for the contest
The world of computing took human race to a new level of sophistication and possibilities, that a few decades ago, would have been a fantasy. The era of information technology made possible the rapid information exchange and connectivity. With the development of satellite communications, even the remote part of the world is made accessible. Any man made system can be predicted over time. With the advancements in Data Science, most of the business today runs on the prediction models. Starting from stocks to weather we predict how the future is going to be.

The models fail in predicting many natural calamities, or even if the prediction is possible, the impact factor of the disaster could not be anticipated. The computer technology should be properly utilized in making proper decisions and in making sophisticated alternatives if the unexpected has happened. Forest fire has been a problem since mankind knew how to make one. Though, in recent years technologies have been utilized in predicting, the forest fire is still a huge alarm for mankind. There are many factors that causes the forest fire, listing all the possibilities may not be possible. 

Consider a hill, we call it a terrain. In order to know an outbreak the entire zone of interest must be under surveillance. So the first problem is as follows, “Given a terrain what is the minimum number of cameras required to monitor the entire terrain?”. This problem can be reduced to a well known problem in Computational Geometry, the continuous 1.5D terrain guarding problem. “Given an x-monotone polygonal chain (1.5D terrain) what is the minimum number of guards required to guard the entire terrain?”. Monitoring the entire terrain can be expensive. Based on predictive models, major areas of interest can be found and those regions alone can be guarded. This can be solved to a discrete case of the terrain guarding problem, “Given an x-monotone polygonal chain what is the minimum number of guards required to guard the given set of points on the terrain?”. In the original terrain guarding problem, both the discrete and the continuous case are proved to be NP-hard. For both the problems, Polynomial Time Approximation Schemes have been proposed.

If our monitoring system finds an event of fire, it should be equipped with proper resources to prevent a major outbreak. If we have water sources operating in 360o fashion and the range of the water source is assumed to be r, then finding the minimum number of such sources required to cover the entire terrain would be the following problem. This can again be modelled as a terrain guarding problem where the guard visibility range is r. A dynamic programming formulation has been proposed for the problem. The water sources can be automated  to start whenever an event of fire has been detected.

Here image visualization is used in predicting the fire. The cameras can be replaced by sensor networks, where Forest Fire Danger Index (FFDI) can be used to predict the fire outbreak.
